# NEA Project
## File structure

The `.gitignore` file is used to tell the version control software Git what files should not be published to this repository, for example, the modules. 
The `package-lock.json` file is generated by the package manager software called NPM to document the specifics of the dependencies and sub-dependencies of the project. 
The `package.json` file is a file created by the user that gives meta-data on the project, shows the main dependencies, the scripts used to start and run the project and browser compatibility. 
Modules can be installed by running the console command `npm install` after locally cloning this repository. Thereafter, one can locally run the project for development using the start script, or generate static production files using the build script.
NodeJS and NPM will have to be installed on the device to execute this. 
`shrinkwrap.yaml` is a file that further documents dependencies for the host I am using. 
`tsconfig.json` sets the configuration and settings the for TypeScript compiler, instructing it the specifics on how to compile the TypeScript code down to JavaScript.
`watch.json` is used by the host to understand what files to watch for restarts.

The folder `my-app` contains miscellaneous files for the host.

The folder `public` contains static files that are used as the bare base of the project as a web application. These files are not transpiled during production and their contents are not changed. 

The `src` folder is the main folder of the application and contains all the source files for the project. 
The files are mostly comprised of TypeScript `.ts` and `.tsx` files. TS files are used for classes, interfaces and other files that are not related to the UI and UX of the application. TSX files contain syntactic JSX HTML tags for generating the GUI. 
The folder contains the following file structure adapted for ease of development, maintainability and expandability:
- Context: Contains global variables that are shared throughout the entire app and are imported by individual components. 
- Data: Contains JSON formatted database files that contain necessary data for the application.
- Interfaces: Contains TypeScript Object interfaces for recurring used data types in the application.
- Store: Contain classes that optimise the use of the browser's Local Storage for different aspects.
- Styles: Contains files that give basic, independant styling to the entire application and is solely imported by the `App` file.
- UI: The largest folder which contains all the user interface and experience components that make up the entirety of the application. 
- Util: Contains miscellaneous utility files which are used by the project which are either used on multiple occasions or are large enough to be contained in their own file. 

Thereafter, the main files of the project are as follows:
- `App.tsx` The file which brings together all the aspects of the project into a main component which contains the major features of the project. 
- `index.tsx` The beginning file of the project which is first run and imports the App component, contains in within styles and renders it to the screen. 
- `react-app-env.d.ts` is used by ReactJS, the major dependency of this project for possible type declarations. 
- `serviceWorker.js` The only JavaScript file on the project which is used to register a service worker, a vital tool in modern web applications. 